Now, let's move on to the icons.
So for our icons, we are gonna give
each icon a width and a height.
Width of 50 pixels and
a height of 50 pixels.
Why are we using fixed width and height?
What we wanna do is make
these an exact size,
because eventually we're gonna
move them on top of the person.
We don't want them covering
up the person too much.
So, in this particular case,
we do want them to be about that size.
I'm gonna give this a background
color of var green.
So, that will give us
our background color.
And now,
we can give us some padding of 10 pixels.
So, we'll have a little
bit of space around.
Just like that.
So, you see when you put that on there.
It makes your icon
a little bit smaller and
clears out space around
each one of those symbols.
Make sense?
Okay.
Then what do I need to add here?
Border radius.
50 percent.
So, now we make a circle.
Woo-hoo, yeah.
>> Sorry,
why did padding make the images smaller?
>> Because,
we're putting this on the icons.
Which is the div that is surrounding
the link that is surrounding the image.
>> Would it do that to other kinds
of content, text or something?
>> Potentially,
if you gave it a width and a height.
Cuz, remember,
we're working with border box.
So, we said the width is 50 pixels and
we've added now 10 pixels of padding.
So, we've got to shrink
the size of our content.
That's what we have going on here, okay?
Yeah, pretty cool, okay.
So, and then the last part of this is
putting the icons on the image itself.
So, back up here in the figure,
well actually, let me do it this way.
Thinking about how to do this,
because you guys have never worked
with absolute positioning before.
So, let's start it this way.
I have my explanation here.
All right, let's do it this way.
Icons, colon first of type.
So, what we're doing here is I'm selecting
the first icon In my group of icons here.
That's what that particular selector says.
So, the very first icon,
whatever it happens to be,
that is the one we're going to choose.
In absolute positioning,
we can say position of absolute.
That's how it starts.
If you notice the image
has now disappeared.
[LAUGH] Did everybody see that?
I take it away it was there.
And when I put it back, it's gone.
Very nice, okay?
And the reason it does that in this
case it's going the upper left-hand
corner of the screen.
So, we have to tell it to display
somewhere else you can do
that with the properties that
are called top bottom right and
left, and I am going to do
right five percent top 55%.
And you will notice that now I
have an Instagram icon hanging
out there in space,
having a great life, okay?
Probably not what we want.
And this comes back to the question in
CSS, which is relative to what, okay?
So, absolute positioning is going to
allow you to take any element and
move it anywhere you want on the web page.
But, the question is relative to what?
Its relative to its ancestor,
with a position other than static.
Aren't you glad you know that now?
A position other than static.
So, static positioning is what all
of these elements have by default,
everything has a position of static.
So, what this is doing right now,
this particular position is 5%
away from the edge of the page.
And 50% down from the top.
Because, it's gone all the way back
to the body element and it says,
there is no other position
other than static on this page.
So, it's positioning relative to that
top left corner here in the body, right?
That's why it actually showed up here.
And if you look at it,
it kinda makes sense, right?
Looks like not too far from the right.
Well, more or
less in the middle, 55%, yeah?
So, in order to use absolute positioning
and have it apply to our figure.
We need to add a position other
than static somewhere here.
And we can do that with our figure itself.
So here on my figure,
I will add to this a position of relative.
That is something other than static and
it doesn't do anything necessarily with
the way that this page is rendering.
So, now my Instagram icon shows up
closer to where I want it to be.
It looks like I have probably something
off somewhere here in my code.
But, that gets us closer.
Questions on that so far?
Okay, so here is the absolute
coolest part of all of this.
So, we have three icons.
And you could set these up with classes
and have them display on the page.
But remember, we have some
cases where we have two icons.
And we have some wonder why that did that.
We have some cases where we have one icon,
right?
And we want them all displayed
exactly in the right way.
So, how do we get this to work no
matter how many icons we have?
Whether we one, two or three icons,
and the way we can do this is
with these wacky CSS selectors.
So, this is more oriented to you,
more advanced developers.
And I'm gonna walk you through
exactly how you would set this up.
So, if we have icons nth of type of two.
This is gonna select the second icon And
to that,
we can say our position is absolute.
And our right position is -5% and
our top is 41%.
Okay, so there we go.
Now we've got two icons there.
So in other words, the second icon
is always gonna go to this spot.
And the first of type
will go underneath of it.
Notice how nicely that is working
all the way through here.
And then, again, I'm not panicking until I
put in all of my code and then I'll panic.
The last one here, you CSS nerds
will really appreciate this one.
We actually have two types of styles
that we wanna account for here.
If we have, the only icon.
Or if we have the last icon,
in other words,
the one in the third position
has to be in the same spot.
And the way I'm going to do this is
with is which is a new selector.
So, if it is the last of type,
only of type.
And here we'll say position of absolute.
Right will be -8% and top will be 25%.
Okay.
So, if it's your last icon,
it's gonna show up here.
Or actually here, the Instagram icon.
In the case where we only have two icons,
it's gonna show up there.
The first one will show up here.
Or, sorry,
the second one will show up here.
I still don't know what's
going on with this.
I have to go back and look at that HTML.
I'm not sure why that icon is extra small,
but anyway, there we go.
And so, you can see how nicely
this works for all of these.
Whether you have one, two, or three icons.
They are showing up
correctly on the images.
And the trick to this is to make sure that
these classes are in exactly this order.
If you put them in a different order,
it doesn't work.
So, you have to list the last one,
the middle one, and
then the first one in order to
get this to work correctly.
Okay.
And then my very last trick is to
add a hover state for my icons.
So, icons colon hover.
The background color will be var blue.
So now, when I hover over those icons,
their background color changes.
Woo-hoo.
Okay, now that I've completely blown
your minds, Any questions on that?
Just to say a little bit more
about those particular selectors.
So, first of type and subtype,
last of type only of type.
These are pseudo classes
that are available to us.
I go over them in
the intermediate HTML and
CSS course where I talk
more about selectors.
And the same with the is, is, and has, and
where are three brand new
pseudoclasses that are out there.
One of those parameters has to be
true in order for the style to apply.
It's kind of a shorthand of
writing a bunch of other things.
So again, if you take a look at
the intermediate HTML and CSS course,
it'll walk you through all these wacky
selectors that I've used here for this.
Again, if you're more
of a junior developer,
you might find it works
better just to have classes.
And you can assign them one,
two and three, and
assign the classes to
the icons as you wish, okay?
So, here we are.
They're all stacked on top of
each other here on the screen.
And we have our icons in place.
I love this trick.
It's totally awesome.
So, I'm glad you all enjoyed it too.